The Secret of the Old Mill (1948)

A Secret Seven Adventure
by Enid Blyton

CHAPTER ONE - Peter has an idea

Peter was reading a book. He was sitting under a bush, almost hidden,
and he hadn't said a word for over an hour.

"Peter!" said Janet. "Peter! Do talk to me."

Peter took no notice of his sister at all. He just went on
reading. Then Scamper, the golden spaniel, pushed himself close to
Peter and licked his nose.

Peter took no notice of Scamper either. Janet got cross.

"Peter! I keep talking to you and you don't answer. You're mean."

Peter turned over a page, and was lost in his story again. Janet
wondered what he could be reading. It must be a very very interesting
book! She crawled under the bush beside him.

She looked at the title of the book, printed at the top of the
left-hand page: "The Secret Society." Well, it sounded exciting. Janet
felt as if she must read it, too! She leaned over Peter's shoulder and
began to read as well. But he didn't like that.

"Don't," he said, and pushed his sister away. "You know I hate people
reading the same thing as I am reading."

Then a bell rang in the distance.

"Bother!" said Peter. "Now I'll have to stop. Janet, this is a lovely
book; really, it is."

He got up, and Janet got up, too. "Tell me about it," said Janet, as
they went up to the farmhouse for tea.

"It's about a Secret Society," said Peter. "There's a band of men who
have a secret meeting-place and a secret password they use to let one
another know they're friends. And they plan all kinds of things
together."

"Oooh, how lovely!" said Janet. "I shall like reading that book. It's
the one Granny gave you, isn't it?"

"Yes," said Peter. Then he suddenly stopped, his face glowing with
excitement. "Janet! Why shouldn't we have a Secret Society, too - a
secret band of boys and girls - and a secret meeting- place?"

"With a secret password," said Janet, standing still, too. "Peter -
that would be marvellous!"

"Where could we meet?" wondered Peter. "We'd have to plan all
that. Oh, I know! Up at the tumbledown Old Mill!"

The tea-bell rang again, more loudly and impatiently. "Mummy's getting
cross," said Janet. "We'd better hurry. We can talk about it after
tea. Oh, Peter - what a lovely idea!"

They went in to tea with Scamper at their heels. They were so excited
that they almost forgot to go and wash their hands first. But Mummy
soon reminded them!

They hardly said a word at teatime, because they were both so busy
making their plans. Mummy felt quite worried.

"What's the matter with you both? You hardly say a word!" she
said. "Have you quarrelled?"

"Oh, no," said Peter. "Of course not. We've thought of a lovely plan,
that's all."

"Well, so long as it doesn't mean you getting too dirty, and so long
as it's nothing dangerous, that's all right," said Mummy. "What is
it?"

Peter and Janet looked at one another. "Well," said Peter, at last,
"it's a secret really, Mummy."

"Then, of course, I won't ask any questions," said Mummy at once. That
was always so nice of her - she never made the children tell her
anything if they didn't want to.

"I expect we'll tell you sometime," said Peter. "But we don't really
know enough of the secret ourselves yet. I've finished my tea,
Mummy. Can I go?"

He and Janet and Scamper rushed out of the old farmhouse, which was
their home. It was called Old Mill Farm because of the tumbledown mill
on the hill nearby, which had once belonged to the farm. It had been a
famous mill in its day, and its great vanes had swung round thousands
of times in the wind, to work the machinery that ground the corn for
the farmer. It stood up on the sunny hill, its vanes broken and still
now. The farmer no longer ground his corn there. It was an empty, dark
old place, full of mice, owls, and spiders.

"Shall we go to the mill and talk over our plan?" said Janet. "Nobody
will hear us then."

So off they went to the mill. They went in at the crooked old door,
and found themselves in darkness, except for a few thin rays that
crept in at cracks in the wall. The children didn't mind the quietness
and the dark - they liked the old mill very much. They sat down in a
corner.

"We'll talk in a low voice, because it's very, very secret," said
Peter. "Now - who shall we have for our band, our Secret Society,
Janet? Only boys and girls we really like and trust. We mustn't have
anyone who will give the password away."

"I should have Colin - and Jack - and Pam - and George," said
Janet. "We both like them - and we know they can keep a secret,
because we've tried them before. Let's get them all here on Saturday
and have our first Secret Society meeting!"

"Yes - and choose the password, and plan what we are going to do!"
said Peter. "It will be fun! Let's have Barbara, too. I like her -
she's good fun."

"Right," said Janet. "Well, that's the first thing done - we've chosen
the members of our Secret Society. Oh, isn't it going to be exciting,
Peter!"
